oh boy you wake up because the ground is
shaking ah nothing new a Diplodocus has
just passed your house you look out the
window Oh No
yet another t-rex chasing your doggy no
you haven't somehow come around in
Jurassic Park that's what your life
would have been if the asteroid had hit
the earth just several seconds later yep
I mean the very asteroid that collided
with our planet about 65 million years
ago causing havoc across the globe and
wiping dinosaurs out but it turns out
that if this asteroid had fallen a mere
10 seconds later you wouldn't recognize
the earth these days let's see what your
day in this new even though only for you
world would look like you open your eyes
in the morning and immediately shut them
again because the colors are too bright
and sunlight hurts you're unprepared
eyes well it might be surprising for you
but it's nothing new for the people who
were born and live on the planet
alongside dinosaurs the thing is that
dinos had a color vision and it was more
difficult for them to blend in that's
why there were very few animals colored
black and white like modern zebras most
dinos were multicolored which helped
them to hide in the environment they
lived in for example field dinosaurs
were most likely of different shades of
green to blend into the grassy
background but dinos being so great at
camouflaging themselves made human
vision much sharper otherwise they
wouldn't have been able to notice well
disguised animals anyway still pondering
on your advanced eyesight you get up
from your bed and almost step on a cat
sized creature it manages to - from
under your foot at the last minute shot
if you look at the creature and it
stares back at you with apparent
indignation I'm afraid I have to break
it to you that's your pet Dino
and although the thing is tiny it's also
very smart in the real world before the
asteroid hit Earth the biggest part of
the planet was covered with tropical
forests vegan dinosaurs roaming there
were huge slow and clumsy
most plants on their diets were ferns
and conifers such as pine trees furs and
use this food wasn't filling and took a
lot of time to digest
that's why dinosaurs had to eat tons of
leave to keep going but in our imaginary
world the asteroid let dinosaurs live to
see the in nutritious plants evolved
into something much better flowering
plants berries and fruit this food was
so much easier to digest and way more
filling it means there was no need for
dinos to grow so gigantic they were
becoming smaller and smaller until a big
part of the move to live on trees and
started to drink nectar people managed
to tame some of these miniature animals
that's where the pet you found on your
bed comes from but even though you're
unprepared and bewildered you can't
spend the whole day locked inside oh my
look at that never in your life have you
seen so many unusual animals soon you
find out that the survival of dinosaurs
changed not only the Earth's history but
also the history of the human race
by following their evolutionary route
dinos prevented mammals from evolving
and developing that's why in the Dino
world people appeared much later than in
our real world on the earth you're used
to Antarctica got separated from South
America some 34 million years ago it
influenced the direction of ocean
currents and made the world a much
colder and drier place on the bright
side there started to appear fields and
grass eating hoofed mammals such as the
ancestors of modern day dear--and
antelopes as well as predators hunting
them like lions wolves and cheetahs
besides some species evolved into hordes
of small bouncy animals that found it
very comfortable and safe to hide in
dense grass as for the world where
you're now even though the asteroid was
several seconds late the planet was
developing pretty much in the same way
Antarctica and South America still split
and fields were still swarming with live
beaked or horned animals but these
animals were herbivore dinosaurs
they were hunted by dangerous predators
carnivorous dinosaurs as for the hoofed
animals mammals and most predators that
live on our planet today they didn't
appear at all you also find out that
dinosaurs have evolved into thousands of
different kinds and species there are
tiny dinos that spend most of their time
in holes and burrows just like our moles
and lizards some dinosaurs lost their
plumage and grew fur the plumage of
others on the contrary became thicker
and denser a big part of ancient
reptiles and dinosaurs left the land and
chose to live in seas and oceans
adapting to the underwater lifestyle and
growing fins and right now brace
yourself because over there not so far
away you see a group of 2 footed compact
dinosaurs walking towards you they seem
to be wearing something that resembles
clothes and they're talking to each
other ah don't panic
those are the descendants of Troodons
dinosaurs with a surprisingly big brain
since this species wasn't wiped out by
the asteroid disaster Troodon slowly but
surely evolved into sentient beings they
have arms and hands that they skillfully
is put their language sounds like birds
chirping at the same time most
descendants of ancient reptiles haven't
evolved into thinking beings they
adapted to civilization just as animals
in our real world did people have
domesticated some of them others live in
natural reserves and the rest try to
stay close to people just like pigeons
or rats you can help but notice some
other difference between life in our
world and the one in the world full of
dinosaurs for example since there are no
cows or other hoofed animals and dinos
can't produce milk there are no dairy
products and supermarkets or if there
are some they're considered to be
something exotic and cost a fortune
the culture is different as well and you
can notice these two similarities in
everything from fashion to comic book
heroes that's why instead of admiring
spider-man people are crazy about t-rex
man
well it sounds like an amazing world and
so different from the one we live in
sound off in the comments below whether
you would want to sneak a peek at the
Dino earth but I wonder how could just
one event that didn't happen change the
fate of the whole planet so much
remember I mentioned that ill-fated
asteroid by crashing into Earth it
caused an abrupt temperature drop and
the disappearance of 3/4 of all animal
species that were living on our planet
at that time but if the asteroid had
fallen several seconds later it would
have landed in a deep ocean the water
would have taken the edge off the
collision and the hit wouldn't have had
such dramatic consequences that's why
most dinosaurs would have survived at
the same time they would have had to
adapt to the rapidly changing climactic
conditions very fast but it didn't
happen the asteroid fell exactly where
it fell and the earth atmosphere didn't
manage to slow it down well with the
invader being as big as it was it hit
the ground at the speed of 20 miles per
second and blue clouds of dust soil and
rocks into the air this debris not only
went up to the upper layers of the
atmosphere but also reached space huge
amounts of dust completely blocked
sunlight for weeks and months on end
lots of plants couldn't survive these
conditions and disappeared disrupting
the food chain rocks that were hurled
into the atmosphere in the first hours
after the collision returned to earth in
the form of burning fireballs they
heated the surface of the planet to
boiling temperatures and even though it
lasted just for several minutes it was
enough to wipe out most animals and
plants sea inhabitants were more
protected from the disastrous
after-effects of the collision but not
for long plankton couldn't live without
sunlight and when it disappeared small
fish that fed on it didn't survive
either of course with a number of
smaller fish getting lower every day
bigger sea predators had less and less
food until there was not
those animals who are hibernating during
the moment of impact or lived in burrow
survived but they also had a hard time
trying to fend off hunger as for the
poor dinos well you don't see any around
these days do you yeah
the dinos are pretty sore about that hey
if you learn something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life